You can use geo restriction, also known as geo blocking,
to prevent users in specific geographic locations from accessing content
that you're distributing through a CloudFront distribution.
To use geo restriction,
you have two options. Use the CloudFront geo restriction feature. Use this
option to restrict access to all of the files that are associated with the
distribution and to restrict access at the country level.
Or use a third‑party geolocation service.
Use this option to restrict access to a subset of the files that
are associated with the distribution or to restrict access at a
finer granularity than the country level.
When a user requests your content,
CloudFront typically serves the requested content
regardless of where the user is located.
If you need to prevent users in specific countries from accessing your content,
you can use the CloudFront geo restriction feature to do one of the following.
Allow your users to access your content only if they're in one of the
countries on a whitelist of approved countries,
Maybe you would like only viewers from the US to be able to view your content.
Then you could whitelist the United States only, which would prevent viewers
accessing your content if requesting from outside of the country or prevent
your users from accessing your content if they're in one of the countries on
a blacklist of banned countries.
For example,
if a request comes in from a country where for GDPR reasons
you're not able to comply with local laws,
you could use CloudFront geo restriction to block the request.
Here's how geo restrictions work.
Suppose you have a website which generally caters to viewers from the
US, but is accessible by visitors around the world. With GDPR, you
either have to rush to provide a privacy and consent model for the
tracking mechanisms that you already enabled on your site immediately to
become compliant for visitors from the EEA, or take your time and enable
everything correctly,
but in the meantime block the countries which fall under
GDPR regulations to avoid a violation.
So let's go with the latter.
Let's geo restrict countries which are a part of the EEA.
So a user in Denmark requests your content.
DNS routes the request to the CloudFront edge location in Copenhagen, Denmark.
The edge location in Copenhagen looks up your distribution and determines
that a user in Denmark is not allowed to view your content.
CloudFront returns an HTTP status code of 403 Forbidden to the user.
Yet everyone else who was in a country which is not a member of
the EEA will be able to view your content.
You can optionally configure CloudFront to return a
custom error message to the user,
and you can specify how long you want CloudFront to cache the error response.
Remember, the default value is 5 minutes.
Geo restrictions apply to the entire web distribution.
If you need to apply one restriction to part of your content and a different
restriction or no restriction to another part of your content,
you must either create separate CloudFront distributions or
use a third‑party geo location service.
Let's enable this GDPR CloudFront geo restriction on our
distribution by following these steps. From within the CloudFront
console, open the distribution that you want to apply geo
restriction to. Choose the Restrictions tab.
Choose Edit. For Enable Geo‑Restriction, choose Yes. For Restriction
Type, we're going to choose Blacklist to block access to certain
countries. For Countries, select the EEA countries that we want a
blacklist, then choose Add. Once we're done,
choose Yes, Edit. If you remember from the last video, CloudFront errors can be
kind of ugly, so we will be setting a custom error message for when a user from
a blacklisted country tries to access content.
Now that our CloudFront distribution is deployed, from
the US, we can access this content.
But as you can see, in Denmark,
a 403 is returned. Adding a custom error response to 403, we now have a friendly
message saying that due to GDPR, we're unable to display our content of viewers
within the EEA. Perfect. We have successfully restricted access to our content based on CloudFront geo restrictions.